TESKET

kingdom based entirely around magic
built nearby a small desert formed by a rainshadow
	desert was not the size it is today
judicious use and abuse of magic over time has salted the earth, expanding the desert area all the way to the coast
was built where it was due to being on top of a large leyline
	ley line also coincides with an actual fault line in the crust
a large earthquake eventually split and nearly destroyed Tesket
	THOUGHT:  Was it not always called Tesket?   maybe it was something else before the split??
inhabitants are almost completely dependent on magic for everything
	food, water, clothing, construction, defense, etc
	"goods not made out of magic" is a small niche market that is not very large
EARTHQUAKE NOTES
	bad:
		- it nearly destroyed a large portion of the city
		- caused them to need to rebuild dealing with the large chasm that formed
		- gave even more access to the ley line, which could be catastrophic down the road
		- caves and such below the surface are exposed, leading to major problems with monsters and cave dwelling things
			NOTE: These creatures would be highly powerful/magical, having lived their lives/evolved basically on top of a leyline
	good:
		- opened up access to aquifers beneath the surface, giving the city access to resources again
		- opened up access to areas where mining could happen
		- ley line is even more accessible and powerful now (good and bad)
	results:
		magical research has skyrocketed lately
			thanks to greater access to the ley line
	TODO:
		What was the name of the catastrophe that split open the chasm>?
		What is the name of the chasm?
REVOLUTION NOTES
	started by a group of people who wanted the city to be less entirely dependent on magic
		kind of a hybrid of eco-activism and magic-hate
	Started small with just little protests
	Eventually hit a critical mass and became militant
	managed to do some serious damage to SOMETHING
		TODO:  What major blow did the revolution strike that severely hampered the work of the people in charge of the city?
			Idea: They let off a null-magic bomb in the artifact repository, rendering thousands of powerful ancient artifacts useless
				Follow up:  The attempts to "renew" this artifact repository by the leaders of Tesket was the large magical influx that caused the earthquake possibly!
				Note:  Was the null-magic bomb created by secret research of some creature(s) that live underground that have become immune to magic?
	as a result, DRASTIC measures were taken by the rulers of the city, and the revolution was quashed rapidly with the use of magic for brutal purposes
		TODO: What kinds of things did they do with magic that would be highly frowned upon or horrifying?
	After the revolution was over, the enraged rulers ended up using magic to animate the corpses of the revolutionaries and used them for manual labor for a time
		The leaders of the revolution have been defaced and encased forever in glass, and are on display somewhere in the city
	The inhabitants of the city underwent a very thorough campaign of propaganda
		they eventually came to be convinced as a city that the revolutionaries were scum, and they wanted nothing more than to destroy the entire city
	As of present day, the inhabitants all consider the actions taken back then to be fully justified, and there have been many warpings of historical events over time to make the revolutionaries seem far worse and more sinister than they actually were
	TODO:  Come up with some turn of phrase or cultural colloquial that the city uses now that relates back to that group!  (Think Punics)
	To this day a VERY small and EXTREMELY paranoid/secretive group still exists in/near the city that are the remainder/descendants of that revolution, who still want to further that cause
		They see what is happening to the city, especially after the chasm opened
FOUNDING NOTES
	FOUNDER:
		Vulri Kowent
		Female Half-Elf
	Vulri had been exiled from a town to the east of Damastris, near the mountains -- the cause of her exile is unknown
	She knew very little about wilderness survival and was slowly starving
	When she reached the area where Tesket now stands, she was near death
	One of their near-dying thoughts was of food/water to survive
		Upon this, a feast and drink spawned in front of their eyes
	At first she thought it was a miracle, but found that prayer didn't work
	After much trying, she was eventually able to "create" other smaller things (nothing the size of the feast)
	eventualy she became mostly self-sufficient
		This grew over time to them managing a small self-sufficient farm and animating objects to do work for them
	Travelers through the area met them, and saw what she did, and brought back stories to other cities/towns, which drew the attention of mages
	Mages traveled out to this person and found their own abilities sustained by the area, and helped to study and find out that it was a Ley Line
	Eventually magic users started moving to the area for study and built homes/labs out there, and a small town grew from that
		Mages worked together in the beginning to automate many "tedious" parts of their lives so she wouldn't be distracted from studies

IDEAS FOR OTHER HISTORICAL EVENTS:
	Have a tenuous/hostile/strained relationship with the Elves
		TODO:  WHY?
			Destroying the landscape?
			Misuse of the leylines?
			Elves supporting the eco-activists in Tesket?
	Large change in some kingdom-wide policy?
	Some large event back in the history of Tesket that resulted in the creation of a new race?
		Possibilities:
			Animal hybrids (Arrakoa, Ratmen, Frogmen, etc)
			The Djanthi
			Sentient Golems
		Note:  Depending on the race, some kind of push for freedom for that race?
			- Would this be the "policy change"?
	Some part of the city that someone attempted to make a floating city ends up failing and crashing back down?
		NOTE: It failed fairly quickly, causing massive destruction but not destroying the entire city!!
		NOTE: This would have happened a while ago, way before the earthquake
		IDEA:  Was this research done at the behest of the fallen kingdom??
	Some kind of yearly exam in an academy where in one instance it went REALLY badly or had a mishap
		Some peasants attempted to get a leg up on the yearly exams
		They smuggled mana from the leyline and stored it over a year
		When the yearly exams came, they tried to use the mana to pass
		They couldn't control the mana and their exam went completely haywire
		TODO:
			What happened?
			How did it get fixed?
			What was the aftermath?
	Early in Tesket's life, a nearby now-fallen kingdom laid claim to the land and tried to oust the mages and take control
		The mages struck some faustian bargain with the kingdom in order to keep the land and continue studies
		At some point that kingdom fell into ruin
			TODO:  HOW?
		Rumors that Tesket, as it grew, helped along the ruin of the other kingdom to "get out of their deal"
		TODO:  Details about this bargain!
		After kingdom "falls" Tesket is renamed to what it is today
			TODO: Come up with what Tesket has been called in the past!





OPEN QUESTIONS STILL:
	POLITICAL
		How do they interact with other nearby kingdoms?
		What kind of government do they have?
			What is their justice system like?
	SOCIETAL
		what is their culture like?
			How do they feel about outsiders, or about the various races?
			Are they willing to teach others magic?
				Do they share magic with others at all?
		What is their economy like?
			Do they have a need for money if magic provides "everything"?
				If they don't need money, how do they handle trading/selling goods, services, etc?
				If they need money, what is the money?  What can they use that magic can't make?
					Can't be precious metals, since those can be made with magic
					Need to come up with something special that can't be made through magical means
	HISTORICAL
		What other major events have happened in their history?
		How has the city's culture/intentions/goals changed over history?
	MILITARY
		Do they have a standing army?
		Have they been in any wars (see: Historical)
		How do they fight?
			How does magic work in their warfare?
			Do they fight with non-magic too?



NOTES ABOUT CULTURE (IGNORE FOR NOW):
	city walkways between the cliff faces are built with magic that funnels mana right from the ley line and powers them "forever"
		walkways of light
	majority of remaining manual labor is done through animated golems
	TODAY:
		The founder's home is no longer there (nobody has record of what actually happened to it)
			There are no records of the founder dying, but she hasn't been seen in a long time
		All that remains, in the exact center of the city, is a small 20' square garden that seems to be completely immune to any tampering, magical or otherwise
			This garden bears fruit year round, and is harvested by townsfolk whenever they feel like it
			Some people seem to think this fruit has restorative properties, and a small cottage industry exists on pilgrimages to the plot of land to pick fruit to get healed
			Nobody knows for sure if the fruit actually does heal people or not.
		Vulri is treated with great respect, as she was someone who "properly embraced magic", and was saved by magic.
		They now embrace the idea of being "Vulrian" (detailed elsewhere) in her honor
	They have an eco-activist movement trying to look at restoring the land around Tesket
		They have been slowly losing for a long time, and are giving up hope, and work mostly to contain the spread of the desert
		They have support from the Elves when possible
			As a result of this, the Elves are treated badly by Tesket's leaders because it is assumed that all Elves are there to "stop progress"
	There is a branch of a continent-wide "Thieves Guild" in Tesket that has been focused very hard on finding ways to use magic for subterfuge and thievery.
		This group is a VERY exclusive one, and is a "mecca" for rising thieves to go to in order to train and learn new things
	Flight within the city is banned and strictly enforced, but levitation/spiderclimbing are both allowed in order to make transportation easier
	The "peasant" class is people who have not proven to be good mages yet
		some yearly exam happens to see what peasants can rise above their rank
		peasants must study in any free time they have in order to rise out of the rank
		because you aren't forced to stay, most peasantry is very invested in this
			COME UP WITH THOUGHTS ABOUT HOW THE PEASANT CULTURE REVOLVES AROUND THIS TEST